Biscuit parser (#7)
flynn/biscuit-go: parser/GRAMMAR.md

# Parser Grammar

> This document describes the currently supported datalog grammar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the currently supported Datalog grammar.
```

## Atom

> Represent a datalog type, can be one of: symbol, variable, integer, string and date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Represents a Datalog type, can be one of: symbol, variable, integer, string, or date.
```

> - symbol are prefixed by a `#` sign followed by a string, e.g. `#read`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- symbol is prefixed with a `#` sign followed by text, e.g. `#read`
```

> - variable are prefixed by a `$` sign followed by an unsigned 32bit integer,  e.g. `$0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- variable is prefixed with a `$` sign followed by an unsigned 32bit base-10 integer,  e.g. `$0`
```

> - integer are any int64

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- integer is any base-10 int64
```

> - string are any utf8 characters sequence, between double quotes, e.g. `"/path/to/file.txt"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- string is any utf8 character sequence, between double quotes, e.g. `"/path/to/file.txt"`
```

> - date are RFC3339 encoded dates, e.g. `2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- date is RFC3339 encoded, e.g. `2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00`
```

## Predicate

> A predicate is a list of atoms, grouped under a name in the form `Name(Atom0, Atom1, ..., AtomN)` , e.g. `parent(#a, #b)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A predicate is a list of atoms, grouped under a name in the form `Name(Atom0, Atom1, ..., AtomN)` , e.g. `parent(#a, #b)`.
```

## Constraints

> Constraints allows to perform checks on a variable, below is the list of available operations by type and their expected format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constraints allow performing checks on a variable, below is the list of available operations by type and their expected format.
```

### Integer:

- Equal: `0? == 1`

> - Greater: `0? > 1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Greater than: `0? > 1`
```

> - Greater or equal: `0? >= 1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Greater than or equal: `0? >= 1`
```

> - Lesser: `0? < 1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Less than: `0? < 1`
```

> - Lesser or equal: `0? <= 1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Less than or equal: `0? <= 1`
```

- In: `0? in [1, 2, 3]`
- Not in: `0? not in [1, 2, 3]`

###  String

- Equal: `0? == "abc"`

> - Start with: `prefix(0?, "abc")`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Starts with: `prefix(0?, "abc")`
```

> - End with: `suffix(0?, "abc")`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ends with: `suffix(0?, "abc")`
```

> - Regexp: `match(0?, "^abc\s+def$") `

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regular expression: `match(0?, "^abc\s+def$") `
```

- In: `0? in ["abc", "def"]`
- Not in: `0? not in ["abc", "def"]`

### Date

- Before: `0? < "2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"`
- After: `0? > "2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"`

### Symbols

- In:`0? in [#a, #b, #c]`
- Not in:`0? not in [#a, #b, #c]`

## Fact

> A fact is a single predicate that does not contains any variable, e.g. `right(#authority, "file1.txt", #read)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fact is a single predicate that does not contain any variables, e.g. `right(#authority, "file1.txt", #read)`.
```

# Rule

> A rule is formed from a head, a body and a list of constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A rule is formed from a head, a body, and a list of constraints.
```

> The head is a single predicate, the body a list of predicates, and followed by an optional list of constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The head is a single predicate, the body is a list of predicates, followed by an optional list of constraints.
```

> It has the following format: `*Head <- Body @ Conditions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has the format: `*Head <- Body @ Conditions`
```

e.g. `*right(#authority, $1, #read) <- resource(#ambient, $1), owner(#ambient, $0, $1) @ $0 == "username", prefix($1, "/home/username")`

# Caveat

> A caveat is list of rules following the format: `[ rule0 || rule1 || ... || ruleN ]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A caveat is list of rules with the format: `[ rule0 || rule1 || ... || ruleN ]`
```
